[JSON manual] Basic json functions (#57)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/sql/function/json_fn.rst

> :meta-keywords: cubrid json

Reviewer: add more `:meta-keywords:` and add `:meta-description:` - they are relevant for SEO (search engine indexing).

:tocdepth: 3

*********************************

> JSON functions and operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON functions
```

*********************************

.. contents::

JSON_ARRAY
===================================

> .. function:: JSON_ARRAY (val1.., valn)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. function:: JSON_ARRAY ([val1 [, val2] ...])
```

>   The **JSON_ARRAY** function creates a json array containing the given val arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The **JSON_ARRAY** function returns a json array containing the given list (possibly empty) of values.
```

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY(1, '1', json '{"a":4}', json '[1,2,3]');
::

      json_array(1, '1', json '{"a":4}', json '[1,2,3]')
    ======================
      [1,"1",{"a":4},[1,2,3]]

JSON_OBJECT
===================================

> .. function:: JSON_ARRAY (string1 key1, val1 val1.., stringn keyn, valn valn)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. function:: JSON_OBJECT ([key1, val1[ , key2, val2] ...])
```

>   The **JSON_OBJECT** function creates a json object containing the given key value pairs given as arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The **JSON_OBJECT** function returns a json object containing the given list (possibly empty) of key-value pairs.
```

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_OBJECT('a', 1, 'b', '1', 'c', json '{"a":4}', 'd', json '[1,2,3]');
::

      json_object('a', 1, 'b', '1', 'c', json '{"a":4}', 'd', json '[1,2,3]')
    ======================
      {"a":1,"b":"1","c":{"a":4},"d":[1,2,3]}

JSON_DEPTH
===================================

.. function:: JSON_DEPTH (json_doc)

>   The **JSON_DEPTH** function returns the maximum depth of the json. Any json element of an array or of an object increseases depth by one. Depth count starts at 1. Returns NULL if argument is NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The **JSON_DEPTH** function returns the maximum depth of the json. Depth count starts at 1. The depth level is increased by one by non-empty json arrays or by non-empty json objects increase. Returns NULL if argument is NULL.
```

.. code-block:: sql

>     SELECT JSON_DEPTH('[{"a":4}, 2]');

Reviewer: Add more JSON_DEPTH functions to the given example.

::

      json_depth('[{"a":4}, 2]')
    ======================
      3

JSON_LENGTH
===================================

> .. function:: JSON_LENGTH (json_doc, [json path])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. function:: JSON_LENGTH (json_doc [, json path])
```

  The **JSON_LENGTH** function returns the length of the json element at the given path. If no path argument is given, the returned value is the length of the root json element. Returns NULL if any argument is NULL.

.. code-block:: sql

>     SELECT JSON_LENGTH('[{"a":4}, 2]');

Reviewer: Add more JSON_LENGTH examples to select list.

::

      json_length('[{"a":4}, 2]')
    ======================
      2

JSON_VALID
===================================

> .. function:: JSON_VALID (val)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. function:: JSON_VALID (json_doc)
```

Author: JSON_VALID should accept other types..

Reviewer: You are right about accepting other types. Please update description.

  The **JSON_VALID** function returns 1 if the given val argument is a json or would be castable to json, 0 otherwise. Returns NULL if argument is NULL.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_VALID('[{"a":4}, 2]');
    1
    SELECT JSON_VALID('{"222":');
    0

> ::

Reviewer: Remove line `::`

JSON_TYPE
===================================

> .. function:: JSON_TYPE (json_val)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. function:: JSON_TYPE (json_doc)
```

  The **JSON_TYPE** function returns the type of the json_val argument as a string.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_TYPE ('[{"a":4}, 2]');
    'JSON_ARRAY'
    SELECT JSON_TYPE ('{"a":4}');
    'JSON_OBJECT'
    SELECT JSON_TYPE ('"aaa"');
    'STRING'

> ::

Reviewer: Remove line `::`

JSON_QUOTE
===================================

.. function:: JSON_QUOTE (str)

  Escapes quotes and special characters and surrounds the resulting string in quotes. Returns result as a json_string.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_QUOTE ('simple');
::

      json_unquote('simple')
    ======================
      '"simple"'

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_QUOTE ('"');
::

      json_unquote('"')
    ======================
      '"\""'

JSON_UNQUOTE
===================================

.. function:: JSON_UNQUOTE (json_val)

  Unquotes a json_value's json string and returns the resulting string.

>   //TODO: NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES, escape explainations 

Reviewer: Let's add a checklist to issue to not forget about todo's.

Author: done

Reviewer 2: Can we delete TODO?

> :meta-keywords: cubrid json, json functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:meta-keywords: cubrid json, json functions, database json
```

.. contents::

JSON_ARRAY
===================================

.. function:: JSON_ARRAY ([val1 [, val2] ...])

  The **JSON_ARRAY** function returns a json array containing the given list (possibly empty) of values.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY();
::

      json_array()
    ======================
      []

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY(1, '1', json '{"a":4}', json '[1,2,3]');
::

      json_array(1, '1', json '{"a":4}', json '[1,2,3]')
    ======================
      [1,"1",{"a":4},[1,2,3]]

JSON_OBJECT
===================================

.. function:: JSON_OBJECT ([key1, val1[ , key2, val2] ...])

  The **JSON_OBJECT** function returns a json object containing the given list (possibly empty) of key-value pairs.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_OBJECT();
::

      json_object()
    ======================
      {}

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_OBJECT('a', 1, 'b', '1', 'c', json '{"a":4}', 'd', json '[1,2,3]');
::

      json_object('a', 1, 'b', '1', 'c', json '{"a":4}', 'd', json '[1,2,3]')
    ======================
      {"a":1,"b":"1","c":{"a":4},"d":[1,2,3]}

JSON_KEYS
===================================

> .. function:: JSON_KEYS (json_doc [ , json path])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. function:: JSON_KEYS (json_doc[ , json path])
```

>   The **JSON _KEYS** function returns a json array of all the object keys of the json object at the given path. Json null is returned if the path addresses a json element that is not a json object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The **JSON_KEYS** function returns a json array of all the object keys of the json object at the given path. Json null is returned if the path addresses a json element that is not a json object.
```

>   If no argument is given, the keys are gathered from the root path ('$'). Returns NULL if json_doc argument is NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If json path argument is missing, the array gathers keys from json root element. Returns NULL if json_doc argument is NULL.
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a sentence to explain what happens if path does not exist.

I think it would look better if lines are organized like this:
  first list - general description
  second line - explains the json path argument (3 sentences)
  last line - returns null on null argument
